OK.
So so far in previous examples we've only been working with data we generate ourselves using them pi.
Now let's shift gears a little bit to finish off this lecture and actually use a real data set with
pandas so we can learn how to integrate our plotless skills with some real data to do so instead of
importing them pie.
I went ahead and imported pandas as PD and that we still have our Probably the off line in our graph
objects.
The first thing they need to do is actually read in the data and manipulate it a little bit to filter
out some columns of data that we don't want.
We're going to start off by saying DMF is equal to PD.
Read CXXVI and I'm going to read in a C is the file from our data folder and if you have any questions
on we would actually grab this data from actually review the data source lecture.
But there is a folder called data.
And I went ahead and copied it to my examples folder and inside of this there's a file called an s t
dash e s t 20:17 dash all data thought C S V.
So let's then go ahead and print out this data frame so we can see what it looks like.
It's quite a large data frame so you're going to see it being printed out over multiple lines over multiple
columns.
So what I'm going to do is actually is going to print out the head of the data centers here I'm calling
the head method off the state of frame and that only prints out the first five rows still going to be
a lot.
But let's go ahead and run this so you can take a basic look at what this data looks like and to see
this clearly what you should probably do is zoom out more than I'm doing here.
So you see five rows by 121 columns.
And if I expand this a little bit you can see here these are essentially all the columns they have region
division state and this is U.S. Census data.
So there's a name a census population estimate some more column so there's all kinds of columns like
we said there's 121 columns so it can't even display all here.
That's why you have these ellipses indicating that there's more columns than it can reasonably display.
So what we're going to do is use this U.S. Census data but since we don't want to plot over 121 columns
of information we are going to filter out some of that.
So going to zoom back in here for actual filtering Let me zoom back in.
So we get this idea that we have this U.S. Census data.
And what I want to do is I just want to grab six New England states and there is a column inside the
data that's called a division column so division in all caps.
And if that's equal to the string one notice it's not the number one it's the string.
Want to hear that.
That's going to define a new England state.
So I'm going to filter out my data frame where the division column is equal to the string one.
And then I'm going to set that equal to DNF to and again if you have any issues with this dataset not
being found.
Try running our file directly and then using this data frame too.
I'm going to call set index on this second data frame.
And what index does is it can grab a column in your data frame and then set that as the index.
So then I'm going to grab that name column from the data frame and set that as the index.
And I'm going to use in place equal to true.
That way it actually affects this data frame.
If you didn't use in place you'd have to use a re-assignment like DFI 2 is equal to DFA to set in the
x.
So I'm going to save that.
And then finally I actually just want the population columns.
So right now what I have is still 121 columns of data.
It just is the columns of data for six New England states.
What I want to do is only grab population columns so population columns they start with the word POPC.
So going to use a little bit of a trick here and we're going to use list comprehension.
We're going to say call for call in the two columns
column then we're going to use starts with This is a method for a python string and then starts with
the string pop.
So this is a list comprehension.
And what it's doing is recall that D-Nev. to that columns.
That gives you a list of the column names and then we're saying OK for column in column D of two columns
only select that if that column name starts with pop.
So this is our list of population columns and then I'm only going to select those population columns.
So we're going to say DFA two is now equal to the two and we'll say list population columns.
So essentially now just filtering out only the population columns so I no longer have to deal with 121
columns of data.
OK.
So that's our basic filtering of this really big data set.
So make sure you take time to review that if you're a little fuzzy on the Panthers.
But essentially what we're doing is we're just doing some filtering based off the row and column values.
Ok so now let's go ahead and print out our ADF too so we can get an idea of what it looks like now.
So I'm going to run basic dot PI and it's going to print out the two.
And here you can see there's a state name and then some population estimates.
So there's population estimates for 2013 2014 2015 from basically from 2010 all the way to 2017.
So that's still several columns.
So we're going to do is use a list comprehension again to automatically build the traces for us just
like we did earlier.
So let's show you how to do that.
And this is a bit complicated because we're kind of mixing in these two library's panels and partly
but it's not so bad if you take some time to understand what's going on here.
So we're going to start off by building a list comprehension.
So we're going to say that our data is going to be equal to this list comprehension and we're going
to say go scatter.
We're going to build a scatterplot for every state in DNA to index so we're going to start off with
this the thing now that we need to do is actually fill out what's going inside the scatterplot.
So I'm going to put this in here with X equal to why equal to mode and then name.
So these are the four things we typically need to fill out for go Scouter Let's start the easy on which
is mode mode.
I'm going to do here is just say lines for the mode for the x and y values the x value is going to be
equal to the columns.
So we're going to say these are two columns then the y value is going to be equal to the actual value
d to L O C at that name.
Then we have mode which you've already filled out and the name is just going to be equal to name here.
OK.
So we have our data.
Well we're quickly going to do is then plot it.
So I'll say p y o the plot.
And we're going to plot our data.
And I know this is still maybe a little unclear.
Let's go in and plot this mixture works and then we'll do a quicker view of what these lines 12 through
15 are actually doing.
So I'm going to save this and run it basic that pi and make sure you go ahead and utilize the notes
we provide in case you have any questions or typos here.
So we'll run some basic that pi and that brings us this chart.
This is a line chart.
And this basically just compares the population growth over the years.
So as you kind of go along these lines you'll be able to tell the population estimates for each of these
states so we can see Massachusetts has the biggest population here.
And the growth between these smaller New-England states like Maine New Hampshire and Rhode Island was
a little more shallow.
All right.
So that's what the plot actually ends up looking like.
It's a pretty simple plot just showing the general population growth trends.
But let's go ahead and review the actual more complex part of connecting panels to plotline.
So what we did here is we read in that data we filtered out based off division equals a string one.
We set the index to be the name that's going to be important part later on then we grabbed the list
of population columns.
Basically any column names that started with the word POPC and then we filter out based of those lists
of column names then because there's so many columns to have population basically one for each year
between 2010 and 2017 we went ahead and used a list comprehension in order to actually build out each
of the scatter plots.
So for every name that was available to us in the index.
So those are essentially the states because recall it's essentially Connecticut Maine Massachusetts
New Hampshire Rhode Island and Vermont.
So we're saying OK for each one of these states for Connecticut for Maine for Massachusetts what we
want you to do is set X equal to the columns because remember the columns themselves those are the population
estimates.
And then for the y value DFI to ellos see name what that does is it actually grabs this number value.
So the x value is going to say population estimate 2016 the Y Valley using ellos see at that name it
says.
OK so for every name for instance for on Connecticut grabbed the value at Connecticut for this particular
column and the mode is lines and the name for that is just the name of the index.
So Connecticut Maine Massachusetts et cetera.
OK.
So I know it's a little bit complicated because we're mis mixing in kind of three different ideas here.
Data frames list comprehension and go scatterplot.
But if you take time to just slowly build an understanding of what's going on in this line then this
is probably the most complicated part of this.
And again you'll get more more practice and feel more more comfortable as you go along.
OK.
So that's it for line charts.
If you have any questions on this one please feel free to post the Q&A forums and I'm happy to help
out and answer any questions on this.
Thanks and we'll see what the next lecture.